Barclays Online Banking
How to make a payment
It's easy to make a payment
with Online Banking.
Firstly, make sure you have
a PINsentry device to hand.
If you don't don't have a physical
PINsentry and are registered for the Barclays app...
...you can use mobile PINsentry
to authenticate your payments.
On the homepage click on ‘Pay’.
Then select the account you want to make
the payment from in the drop down menu.
Next, click 'Pay someone new'.
Tell us who you are paying,
a person or a business.
If you're paying a company, click
'Search our verified companies'.
Start to type to search for a business.
As you type you'll see
businesses you can select from.
Select the bill you wish to pay.
If you're paying a person,
add the account holder's name here...
...their sort code and their account number.
We'll then check the details
with the recipient's bank.
You can search 'Confirmation of payee'
on the Barclays website for more information.
Next, enter the amount of the payment
you'd like to make...
...then tell us if you'd like to make
the payment now or at a later date.
Add a payment reference that you'll
both see on your account.
Choose the ‘Payment purpose’.
Then, if you've read the information about
fraud and scams and are happy...
...tick the box and then click 'Continue'.
Check the details of the payment are correct
and if you're happy, click 'Pay'.
You'll now need a PINsentry device.
Make sure you have the correct card...
...that ends with the 4-digits that you
will find displayed here on your page.
Insert it into a PINsentry
device and press ’RESPOND’.
Then type your card PIN and press 'ENTER'.
Enter the 8-digit challenge number displayed on
your computer screen here....
...into your PINsentry device and press 'ENTER'.
You'll then receive an 8-digit code
on your PINsentry device.
Type in your 8-digit code,
then click ‘Confirm’.
If you wish, you can click 'Download' or 'Print'
as a record of your payment.
And there you go.